
After initial investigations of both the Bechdel data and existing visualizations of the test, we realized that Bechdel scores could not easily be correlated or predicted through other movie metrics. Essentially, we realized that the issue of gender representation in film was widespread, and cut across time, ticket sales, and genre. This itself is an important story, but to make the data compelling to our users, we decided that it would be important to bring them into the picture. To accomplish this, we centered our visualization around a search bar, which allows users to select movies from a comprehensive dataset of movies from throughout the past century.  Users are greeted by a starter visualization of the Bechdel Test scores of 50 recent movies from our database.  By creating their own plot, users of our visualization experience first hand the surprise of finding out that many of their favorite movies fail the Bechdel Test. They might even grow frustrated at struggling to think of a movie that passes. Creating this moment of reflection is the goal of our visualization. Once our users have taken in the first part of the story, we provide room for further exploration through the genre subplots, and even provide the Bechdel Test’s source material. Finally, we invite users to consider the limitations of the Bechdel Test, including a link to FiveThirtyEight’s take on the issue of gender representation in film. 

The data our visualization is built from consists of nearly 9,000 entries, ranging from the late 19th century to today. For the MVP we used a smaller dataset of around 1600 entries, which included additional information about the movies, such as genre, ticket sales, and awards nominations. The final data does not include these extra fields; it was our view that having a comprehensive set of movies to search was more important than being able to display more information. The smaller data set is now used only in the genre subplots. The limited size of the detailed dataset makes these subplots perhaps less representative than ideal. It is also important to acknowledge that biases in the selection of movies in the original data would propagate into our plots as well. 

For our visual encodings, we chose a radial bar chart to recognize both the tiered structure of the Bechdel Test as well as the overall view of many movies at once. This combined visual encoding allows users to observe multiple dimensions of the movie data at once; they can segment how many of their movies pass a particular rating with our sorting functionality as well as understand where movies fail (or if they succeed!). We initially considered a dot matrix plot to visualize all of our movies and animate them based off of their Bechdel Test scores, but we wanted something to highlight all facets of the data at once and felt that the radial bar chart would accomplish this as well as be more visually striking.

To add to these visual encodings, we employed multiple interactive elements beyond the ability to customize their movie set. Users can right click to expose a bespoke context menu, allowing them to further customize their visualization. They can remove individual films from their plot, clear it and start over, or toggle a sort on their movies. Hovering over wedges on the bar chart reveals a tooltip including title and year information. They can also toggle replacing the Bechdel Test explanation text with a list of their movies. Finally, within the genre subplots, users can compare 3 different genres out of a possible 21. 

Our set of visualizations does not include much animation and thus focused largely on interactivity, as discussed above. We briefly explored attrTween and interpolate capabilities in D3 but made the tradeoff to not include these animation details given the scope of this assignment; we do hope to be able to include them eventually once we expand our D3 repertoire. 

Tanya and Jodi originally worked on a basic radial bar chart within an Observable notebook and incorporated it into the website. Throughout the process, Tanya continued to work on the visualization by adding features such as the tooltip. Jodi moved onto cleaning the data and creating/formatting the components of the website. Allan worked on the search bar and the customization of the curated list, such as sorting and deleting individual movies. Allan was also the main contributor to the conceptualization of the design. We spent around 40 people-hours on this project and the most time consuming tasks were learning D3 in the beginning and making design decisions.
